# Presentation to the core bioinformatics team of SPARMVET_VIZ

## Background

- SOA8 ST 2.2: Implement of a visualization tool - for pipelines results
    - A general species pipeline 
    - Species specific pipelines 
    - Difficulties in knowing what people actually want to visualize 
        - task timiing: people from the different species group still in the process of defining what tools and pipelines they want to implement/use.
        - minimum metadata requirements: unsure if implemented yet
        - people do not know what they want to see (mostly) until they need it for publication 
        - No good access to galaxy histories (was bugging)
- We will need visualisation for VIGAS-P (and eventually other projects)


## Problems it attempts to solve

### Main objectives 
Maximize reusability/adaptability of the tool: One tool to "rule" them all

- Ability to implement visualisations WITHOUT modifiying the tool 
- Should work on any kind of data (tabular for now) - Reusability/adaptability
- Allow wrangling/tidy of data and plotting (without modifying the tool) - 
    - when pipelines are READY (decided/implemented)
    - when people know what they want
- Should allow producing publication ready graphs
- Should allow removal of poor samples (e.g. low coverage) and replotting without modifying the tool to produce those publication ready graphs and minor adjustments to graph (eg. filters samples, select columns, change colors, ...)
- Should allow transparency / reproducibility (eg. how data has been modified)
- It should be possible to deploy in different systems/architectures (eg. galaxy, local, server, ...) 
- UI should be responsive and flexible
- Should allow user to add updated metadata 
- Should be able to adjust functionality (from automatic pipeline, to some degree of user exploration possibility), to full user control (eg. modifying/implementing): We have different users and different usages cases.
- Both Technical and Non-technical user documentation
- ...

### Secondary objectives 

- Help the user remember what they have done to the data (eg. filtering out low coverage samples, outliers). Should help the user keep track of the reasoning behind the filtering (eg. why did I remove this sample?)
- Should be able to reproduce it (eg. for publication)
- Should promote transparency 
- Should be easy to use
- Should provide a source of inspiration (gallery) - should favor "sharing" to promote reusabiity (community)
- Should assist the user in adding its data to the tool 
- Should assist the developper in building visualisations (wranling/tidy/plotting)
- ... should be able to save sessions in progress, data caching for efficiency ...


### Hopes
- The more the tool will be used - the more possibilities implemented - the more usefull it will become (eg. gallery), predefined manifests and visualisations per tool ...


## Demo 

cheatsheet for starting demo 

Demo plan: show 
- 

## Personas and functionalities

Table 

## Questions/anwers : How the tool is build (graph) to allow this