1). yes All the data schema should be joined with Metadata, (at least for now) this will allow see what are the possibilities to define plots visualisations. Aggregations, yes, but they will need for now to occur in data tier 2 because I need to be able to adjust afterwards what we will do. 2). No weighting but we might need to have a way to visualize / annotate which ones are multi-resistant (meaning resistant to more than one class of antimicrobials) to thoses that are not. 3. We could have branching of AMR heatmaps (facetting can be usefull if the plots do not get to small to be read), otherwise we will need to branch the AMR heatmaps and create several plots for each category. What are the traditional thresholds that are used ? that is a good question and yes, we need to have threshold but I think the size of the alignment that was used to determine this threshold is also a key. We need to find out in the scientific literature (online) what is usually used. 4. Right now, I did not observe poor cleaning, but that is not impossible. 4) I agree for integrated multi-omics. We need yes to have temporal trends. Assembly quality impacts right now was tentative and did not lead anywhere. Note that currently This manifest was only a test manifest with no particular biological purpose - except for the analysis lineage related to ST22_Anchor_wrangling. So we need to go sequentially to build each lineage from A to Z , including wrangling, eventual branching, eventuall Tier2 and plotting. We need to go sequentially one lineage at the time, and I will need to be able to open the data and plots produced by each part of the process

I suggest we use :


tmp/2026-04-23/<lineage>/<step/tier/plot> logic as output so I can ihelp instruct for each step. We need to use the scripts that are provided in the different libraries to produce data and plots outputs


----

please check if the structure of the AMR_Profile_lineage comply with the already implemented ingestor, you are not supposed to write new scripts for the process. If script is missing or functionnality is missing you must require this implementation. You are also to comply to current keyword and rules relative to manifest development. 